Write a short description of the action of each of these commands:

cd: this changes the directory of which you are at

pwd: prints the currnt directory one is working on

chmod: this allowes for a program to be used, or a script to be ran

chown: this changes the ownership of a file

chgrp: change the group of each file

date: shows the data

du: summirizes the disk usage of each file

man: shows the manual of the following command

echo: repeats what was passed in:

printf: prints argument of the specefied format

script: script makes a typescript of everything printed on your terminal.

passwd: The passwd command changes passwords for user accounts.

uname:  Print certain system information

who:  Print information about users who are currently logged in.

stty: Print or change terminal characteristics.

mkdir: makes a new directory on the directory you are at.

rmdir: removes a directory

mv: moves a file 

rm: removes a file

cat: shows what it is inside a file

more: more is a filter for paging through text one screenful at a time.

pico: This manual page briefly documents the nano command.

ed: this is a terminal file editor

vi: It can be used to edit all kinds of plain text

wc: Print newline, word, and byte counts for each FILE, and a total line if more than one FILE is specified.

lp: submits files for printing or alters a pending job

od: Write an unambiguous representation, octal bytes by default, of FILE to standard output

tar: Tar stores and extracts files from a tape or disk archive.

gzip: reduces the size of a file

zip: compresses a file

umask: sets  the calling process's file mode creation mask

find: returns what is closet to the keyword

ln (with our without -s) : make line between files

<, <<, > : in c these are bit wise operations to shift

tee: read from standard input and write to standard out

ps: report the current process

& (at the end of a command): allowes to call another command

nohup: run a command imune to hangups.
 
at: examine or delete jobs, for later executions

batch: read commands from standard  input  or  a  specified  file which are to be executed at a later time

crontab: read commands from standard  input  or  a  specified  file which are to be executed at a later time

export: this exports to another section of the os.

set: this sets an object to a variable.

cmp: compare two files bite by bite

diff: compare two files line by line

head: outputs the first part of file

tail: output the last part of a file

cut: removes sections from each line of files

paste: merge lines of files

sort: sort lines of a text files

uniq: report of omit repeated lines

tr: translate or delete characters

grep: print lines matching pattern

sed (read up on regular expressions used in sed): stream editor for filtering and transforming text.

awk (read up on the power of awk): pattern scanning and text processing language. 